DWW OKTA-474032 Tweak public docs about search to encourage use of se… (#3202)
okta/okta-developer-docs: packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/reference/api/users/index.md

##### Request parameters

The first three parameters in the table below correspond to different ways to list users.

- [List Users with Search](#list-users-with-search) (`search`)
- [List Users with a Filter](#list-users-with-a-filter) (`filter`)
- [Find Users](#find-users) (`q`)
- [List All Users](#list-all-users) (no parameters)

| Parameter   | Description                                                                                                                                    | Param Type   | DataType   | Required |
| :---------- | :--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :----------- | :--------- | :------- |

> | search      | Searches for users with a supported [filtering](/docs/reference/core-okta-api/#filter) expression for most properties. Prefer this option for optimal performance         | Query        | String     | FALSE    |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| search      | Searches for users with a supported [filtering](/docs/reference/core-okta-api/#filter) expression for most properties. Okta recommends this parameter for optimal performance.         | Query        | String     | FALSE    |
```

Author: I deliberately left the period off to reflect the rest of the table.  I have no problem adding it, but I'm not going to add it for only the one row.

| filter      | [Filters](/docs/reference/core-okta-api/#filter) users with a supported expression for a subset of properties                  | Query        | String     | FALSE    |
| q           | Finds a user that matches `firstName`, `lastName`, and `email` properties (but prefer search; see above)                       | Query        | String     | FALSE    |

> | limit       | Specifies the number of results returned (maximum 200). Okta recommends preferring search; see above                           | Query        | Number     | FALSE    |

Reviewer 2: `Okta recommends preferring search; see above` seems to have been added at a wrong place?

Reviewer 3: Yeah, unless you're saying "don't try limiting to fewer results, switch to search"?

Author: 🤦 
Quite right.  Fixed.

> | q           | Finds a user that matches `firstName`, `lastName`, and `email` properties (but prefer search; see above)                       | Query        | String     | FALSE    |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| q           | Finds a user that matches `firstName`, `lastName`, and `email` properties. However, Okta recommends the search parameter.                     | Query        | String     | FALSE    |
```

> | limit       | Specifies the number of results returned (maximum 200)                           | Query        | Number     | FALSE    |

Reviewer: My local build shows double entries for the "q" parameter and the "filter" parameter (rows 1145 and 1148) on my branch.

Author: That is weird.  Mine does not.  I'll check it out.

Author: Aha.  I rebase and I'm getting a merge conflict.

Author: After the merge conflict is fixed, I don't show double entries here.  I think that means we're fine.

| after       | Specifies the pagination cursor for the next page of users                                                                                     | Query        | String     | FALSE    |
| sortBy      | Specifies field to sort by (for search queries only)                                                                                           | Search query | String     | FALSE    |
| sortOrder   | Specifies sort order asc or desc (for search queries only)                                                                                     | Search query | String     | FALSE    |

  * If you don't specify a value for `limit`, the maximum (200) is used as a default.  If you are using a `q` parameter, the default limit is 10.
  * An HTTP 500 status code usually indicates that you have exceeded the request timeout. Retry your request with a smaller limit and [paginate](/docs/reference/core-okta-api/#pagination) the results.

>   * Okta strongly advises that where possible, you prefer the `search` parameter, which delivers optimal performance. The `q` or `filter` parameters may struggle to perform, in which case Okta advises reformatting the request to use `search`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Okta strongly advises that you use the `search` parameter, which delivers optimal performance. The `q` or `filter` parameters may struggle to perform, in which case Okta recommends reformatting the request to use `search`.
```

Author: :+1:

- [List Users with a Filter](#list-users-with-a-filter) (`filter`)
- [Find Users](#find-users) (`q`)
- [List All Users](#list-all-users) (no parameters)

| Parameter   | Description                                                                                                                                    | Param Type   | DataType   | Required |
| :---------- | :--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :----------- | :--------- | :------- |
| search      | Searches for users with a supported [filtering](/docs/reference/core-okta-api/#filter) expression for most properties. Prefer this option for optimal performance         | Query        | String     | FALSE    |
| limit       | Specifies the number of results returned (maximum 200)                                                                                         | Query        | Number     | FALSE    |
| after       | Specifies the pagination cursor for the next page of users                                                                                     | Query        | String     | FALSE    |

> | filter      | [Filters](/docs/reference/core-okta-api/#filter) users with a supported expression for a subset of properties                  | Query        | String     | FALSE    |

Author: Yeah, that sounds like a good idea.

> | filter      | [Filters](/docs/reference/core-okta-api/#filter) users with a supported expression for a subset of properties                  | Query        | String     | FALSE    |

Reviewer 2: ping

| sortBy      | Specifies field to sort by (for search queries only)                                                                                           | Search query | String     | FALSE    |
| sortOrder   | Specifies sort order asc or desc (for search queries only)                                                                                     | Search query | String     | FALSE    |

> | q           | Finds a user that matches `firstName`, `lastName`, and `email` properties (but prefer search; see above)                       | Query        | String     | FALSE    |

Author: I think it's correct as-is.

>   * If you don't specify a value for `limit`, the maximum (200) is used as a default.  If you are using a `q` parameter, the default limit is 10.

Reviewer 3: The ordering of this table is weird now.  Besides breaking the earlier sentence about the first three parameters relating to different types of list (more on that in a sec), it weaves those three parameters in and out of the rest.  We lead with our big promoted `search` type, then mention a couple optional parameters that apply to all three types, then we admit to a second type, then a couple more parameters that apply _only to the search case_, then finally poor `q` whose smaller default value for `limit` is tucked away in a note even further down.

Just keep the three types as the first three parameters, then list the modifiers.  Sure, put `search` first, but put the three as the first three.  That way the earlier sentence can continue to talk about the first three parameters in the table.  But speaking of that, it calls them "three types of list", which is specious.  I challenge you to come up with three adjectives to describe those three types.  Those three parameters "correspond to different ways to specify which users to include in the list".

Author: Alright, fine.  And you're right, "different types of lists" is pure nonsense, I'll fix it.

  * An HTTP 500 status code usually indicates that you have exceeded the request timeout. Retry your request with a smaller limit and [paginate](/docs/reference/core-okta-api/#pagination) the results.

>   * We strongly advise that where possible, you prefer the `search` parameter, which delivers optimal performance. The `q` or `filter` parameters may struggle to perform, in which case we advise reformatting the request to use `search`.

Reviewer 3: I don't think "we" use "we" in our docs.  Try: 
Where possible, prefer the `search` parameter, which delivers the best performance. If a `q` or `filter` parameter is responding too slowly, try reformatting the request to use `search`.

Author: "Found occurrences: `okta-developer-docs`: 642 occurrence [sic]".  (No, IntelliJ doesn't pluralize 'occurrences'.)

We most certainly do :trollface:

Author: However after going through _all_ the comments, I see one from a doc person confirming that, in fact, while it might be used all over, they _would_ prefer to avoid it.  So avoid it We shall.

> 

Reviewer 4: I'd recommend re-ordering 
from:
```
- [List All Users](#list-all-users) (no parameters)
- [Find Users](#find-users) (`q`)
- [List Users with a Filter](#list-users-with-a-filter) (`filter`)
- [List Users with Search](#list-users-with-search) (`search`)
```
to:
```
- [List Users with Search](#list-users-with-search) (`search`)
- [Find Users](#find-users) (`q`)
- [List Users with a Filter](#list-users-with-a-filter) (`filter`)
- [List All Users](#list-all-users) (no parameters)
```

Author: Reordered.

| Parameter   | Description                                                                                                                                    | Param Type   | DataType   | Required |
| :---------- | :--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :----------- | :--------- | :------- |

> | q           | Finds a user that matches `firstName`, `lastName`, and `email` properties. We recommend preferring search to this parameter    | Query        | String     | FALSE    |

Reviewer 4: reorder this table as described, and then this can read "... properties (prefer `search`; see above)"

| filter      | [Filters](/docs/reference/core-okta-api/#filter) users with a supported expression for a subset of properties                  | Query        | String     | FALSE    |

> | search      | Searches for users with a supported [filtering](/docs/reference/core-okta-api/#filter) expression for most properties          | Query        | String     | FALSE    |

Reviewer 4: should we indicate here that this is the recommended approach?

Author: Sounds good to me.

  * If you don't specify a value for `limit`, the maximum (200) is used as a default.  If you are using a `q` parameter, the default limit is 10.
  * An HTTP 500 status code usually indicates that you have exceeded the request timeout. Retry your request with a smaller limit and [paginate](/docs/reference/core-okta-api/#pagination) the results.

>   * Requests using the `q` parameter may perform suboptimally and timeout.  The recommended solution is to reformat your request to use the `search` parameter instead.

Reviewer 4: Can we be more generic and positive by saying something like "the performance of the `search` parameter is superior to that of either `q` or `filter` and it is strongly recommended to use `search` whenever possible" ?

>   * Requests using the `q` parameter may perform suboptimally and timeout.  The recommended solution is to reformat your request to use the `search` parameter instead.

Author: I feel like it's important to say it in a way that communicates it's not just that `search` performs _better_, it is that `search` performs **period** where (at least in some circumstances) `q` and `filter` do not.

Due to an infrastructure limitation, [group administrators](https://help.okta.com/en-us/Content/Topics/Security/administrators-group-admin.htm), [help desk administrators](https://help.okta.com/en-us/Content/Topics/Security/administrators-help-desk-admin.htm),
and [custom administrators](https://help.okta.com/en-us/Content/Topics/Security/custom-admin-role/custom-admin-roles.htm) who are only scoped to view and manage users of their assigned groups may experience timeout for the list users endpoints.

#### List Users with search

> Searches for users based on the properties specified in the search parameter. This method typically offers the best performance of any [List Users](#list-users) operation.

Reviewer 3: Is it better than "List All Users"?

Author: Certainly.  While you CAN use the "list all users" operation to emulate searching for any particular user, by cross-referencing yourself, the performance will be really terrible compared to using a search.  Right?

Author: A bit less facetiously - a) It's not exactly wrong (as I demonstrated above), b) it's got the weasel word 'typically', and c) Ordinarily I'm just as nitpicky about half-truths like this as you, but I feel like this is one of the rare circumstances where 1) everyone knows what it means, and 2) it's _more_ legible in the abbreviated format.

Reviewer 3: It depends what you're trying to do.  If you really just want any old users, and are willing to stop at 200, then List All Users is exactly the tool.  It's also a much simpler concept, and has fewer non-default parameters.  It just feels to me like the more natural way to open the topic, and then follow with the three "selective" list operations.  But I don't feel strongly (other than that it made the diff harder to read).

Mostly I was questioning the "best performance".  If what you want is 200 users with no filtering, is it more efficient to search for, what, `profile.login exists` or some such all-inclusive expression?

[Digression: It's really hard to find words to describe what's going on when all the good words are taken.  E.g. I started to write "all-inclusive query" but query is what the `q` parameter stands for.  I only got away with "filtering" because it's in the negative so it can't be confused with `filter`.]

Author: True enough.

And I don't see any other convenient way to express that point other than explicitly call it out as an exception.  (Which I didn't really want to do. but isn't actually that problematic now that I've written it out.)

Property names in the search parameter are case sensitive, whereas operators (`eq`, `sw`, etc.) and string values are case insensitive.  Unlike in [user logins](#okta-login), diacritical marks are significant in search string values: a search for `isaac.brock` will find `Isaac.Brock` but will not find a property whose value is `isáàc.bröck`.

This operation:

* Supports [pagination](/docs/reference/core-okta-api/#pagination).
* Requires [URL encoding](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Percent-encoding).
  For example, `search=profile.department eq "Engineering"` is encoded as `search=profile.department%20eq%20%22Engineering%22`.
  Use an ID lookup for records that you update to ensure your results contain the latest data.
  > **Note:** If you use the special character `"` within a quoted string, it must also be escaped `\` and encoded. For example, `search=profile.lastName eq "bob"smith"` is encoded as `search=profile.lastName%20eq%20%22bob%5C%22smith%22`.
* Searches many properties:
  - Any user profile property, including custom-defined properties

>   - The top-level properties `id`, `status`, `created`, `activated`, `statusChanged` and `lastUpdated`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - The top-level properties `id`, `status`, `created`, `activated`, `statusChanged`, and `lastUpdated`
```

]
```

##### Searching arrays

You can search properties that are arrays. If any element matches the search term, the entire array (object) is returned.
For examples, see [Request example for array](#request-example-for-array) and [Response example for array](#response-example-for-array).

* We follow the [SCIM Protocol Specification](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7644#section-3.4.2.2) for searching arrays.

> * Search for one value at a time when searching arrays. For example, you can't search for users where a string is equal to an attribute in two different arrays.

Reviewer 3: I know you just moved this from somewhere else, but isn't this wrong?  Of course I can search for a string in two different arrays: `arrayAttr1 eq "foo" and arrayAttr2 eq "foo"`.  I _think_ what this is trying to say is you can't look for a single array that contains both "foo" and "bar".

Author: I'm not touching it.  I'm not sure it's wrong.

Reviewer 3: Fine, where do I submit a new bug against this doc?

Author: I guess it's an ordinary OKTA-whatever Jira?  I do agree that it bears looking at, just not as part of this change.

Reviewer 3: Filed https://oktainc.atlassian.net/browse/OKTA-488292

#### Find Users

> Finds users who match the specified query.  To ensure optimal performance, we recommend using a [search parameter](#list-users-with-search) instead.

Reviewer 4: Do we have a standard of one space or two spaces following a period? Applies here and in several other places. 

Beyond that, is it typical to use "we" in the documentation or should we be rephrasing this more like "...The [search parameter](#list-users-with-search) is preferred whenever possible

Author: "We" shows up often enough in the doc.  And I've done two spaces forever, and I'm pretty sure most modern rendering engines automatically shrink the 'space between sentences' to what they think anyway.

Reviewer: From a docs perspective, we try not to use first-person (we) in our docs, although I'm sure there are lots of examples. If we do have a recommendation, we tend to use "Okta recommends" rather than "We".

In terms of periods, we use single space after a period, although Vuepress might render it as one-space no matter what.

This operation:

 * Doesn't support pagination.

>  * May not deliver optimal performance for large organizations, and is deprecated for such use cases.  We recommend using a [search parameter](#list-users-with-search) instead.

Reviewer 4: Same question about the use of "we"

>  * Queries the most up-to-date data. For example, if you create a user or change an attribute and then issue a filter request, the change is reflected in the results.

Reviewer 4: Can we remove this line?

Author: We certainly can.

#### List Users with a filter

> Lists all users that match the filter criteria.  To ensure optimal performance, we recommend using a [search parameter](#list-users-with-search) instead of a filter.

Reviewer 4: Same question about the use of "we"

This operation:

> 

Reviewer 4: Can we remove "Filters against the most up-to-date data. For example, if you create a user or change an attribute and then issue a filter request, the changes are reflected in your results." ?

Author: Yes, we can.

#### List Users with search

> Searches for users based on the properties specified in the search parameter. To ensure optimal performance, we recommend using the search parameter over filter.

Reviewer 4: Searches for users based on the properties specified in the search parameter. This method typically offers the best performance of any [list users operation](https://developer.okta.com/docs/reference/api/users/#list-users).

> > **Note:** Results from the Search API are computed from asynchronously indexed and eventually consistent data. The indexing delay is typically less than one second.

Reviewer 4: Results from the Search API are eventually consistent and typically converge in less than one second.

Author: The results are based on eventually consistent data.  The results are themselves not eventually consistent.

]
```

#### Find Users

Finds users who match the specified query.  To ensure optimal performance, Okta recommends using a [search parameter](#list-users-with-search) instead.

Use the `q` parameter for a simple lookup of users by name, for example when creating a people picker.
The value of `q` is matched against `firstName`, `lastName`, or `email`.

This operation:

 * Doesn't support pagination.
 * May not deliver optimal performance for large organizations, and is deprecated for such use cases.  Okta recommends using a [search parameter](#list-users-with-search) instead.

>  * Performs a startsWith match but this is an implementation detail and may change without notice. You don't need to specify `firstName`, `lastName`, or `email`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * Performs a `startsWith` match but this is an implementation detail and may change without notice. You don't need to specify `firstName`, `lastName`, or `email`.
```
